= Custom Validators

An ever growing collection of custom validators for ActiveModel 3.0.

== Preface

Rails 3.0 have a nice new way to validate instance attributes against built-in and
custom validators. For example, you could say:

  class Foo << ActiveRecord::Base
    validates :name, :presence => true, :uniqueness => true, :format => /(.*)/
  end
  
This equals the following:

  class Foo << ActiveRecord::Base
    validates_presence_of :name
    validates_uniqueness_of :name
    validates_format_of :name, :with => /(.*)/
  end
  
You can do this now without using ActiveRecord either, using only ActiveModel's validators
to validata your model's attributes:

  class Foo
    include ActiveModel::Validators
    
    attr_accessor :name
    validates :name, :presence => true, :uniqueness => true
  end
  
For more information on validators in Rails 3.0, please visit this excellent post by Jamie Hill:
http://thelucid.com/2010/01/08/sexy-validation-in-edge-rails-rails-3/


== Install

Install as a gem:
  
  # gem install custom_validators
  
Or as a plugin

  # rails plugin install http://github.com/tarsolya/custom-validators.git
  
  
== Usage

Supported validators:

* email - Simple validator for e-mail address format, not RFC compliant, though.
  
  # validates :contact, :email => true
    
* real_id - Validates attribute against the new Real ID format used on Blizzard's Battle.net 2.0
  
  # validates :bnet_id, :real_id = true

== Requirements

  * ActiveModel 3.0

== How to contribute
 
* Fork.
* Include your custom validator and name it properly.
* Please do add specs for it. It should be pretty simple,
  just check out the already included ones.
* Commit your changes, but leave Rakefile, VERSION or HISTORY alone.
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Tarsoly András. See LICENSE for details.
